Allrecipes
Log In
Magazine
Newsletter
Sweepstakes
DINNERS
MEALS
INGREDIENTS
OCCASIONS
CUISINES
KITCHEN TIPS
NEWS
ABOUT US
GET THE MAGAZINE
RECIPES
BREAKFAST AND BRUNCH
PANCAKE RECIPES
Good Old-Fashioned Pancakes
4.6
(18,518)
14,855 REVIEWS
1,957 PHOTOS
I found this pancake recipe in my Grandma's recipe book. Judging from the weathered look of this recipe card, this was a family favorite.
Recipe by dakota kelly Updated on November 29, 2022
Save
Rate
Print
Share
Add Photo
1,957
Prep Time:
5 mins
Cook Time:
15 mins
Total Time:
20 mins
Servings:
8
Jump to Nutrition Facts
Perfect pancakes are easier to make than you think. This pancake recipe produces thick, fluffy, and all-around delicious pancakes with just a few ingredients that are probably already in your kitchen (and it's so much better than the boxed stuff).
MEREDITH FOOD STUDIOS
How to Make Pancakes
You'll find a detailed ingredient list and step-by-step instructions in the recipe below, but let's go over the basics:
Pancake Ingredients
You likely already have everything you need to make this pancake recipe. If not, here's what to add to your grocery list:
· Flour: This homemade pancake recipe starts with all-purpose flour.
· Baking powder: Baking powder, a leavener, is the secret to fluffy pancakes.
· Sugar: Just a tablespoon of white sugar is all you'll need for subtly sweet pancakes.
· Salt: A pinch of salt will enhance the overall flavor without making your pancakes taste salty.
· Milk and butter: Milk and butter add moisture and richness to the pancakes.
· Egg: A whole egg lends even more moisture. Plus, it helps bind the pancake batter together.
How to Make Pancakes From Scratch
It's not hard to make homemade pancakes — you just need a good recipe. That's where we come in! You'll find the step-by-step recipe below, but here's a brief overview of what you can expect:
1. Sift the dry ingredients together.
2. Make a well, then add the wet ingredients. Stir to combine.
3. Scoop the batter onto a hot griddle or pan.
4. Cook for two to three minutes, then flip.
5. Continue cooking until brown on both sides.
When to Flip Pancakes
Your pancake will tell you when it's ready to flip. Wait until bubbles start to form on the top and the edges look dry and set. This will usually take about two to three minutes on each side.
How to Reheat Pancakes
Store leftover pancakes in an airtight container in the fridge for about a week. Refrain from adding toppings (such as syrup) until right before you serve them so the pancakes don't get soggy.
ANGELA
Can You Save Pancake Batter?
Don't let leftover pancake batter go to waste! Store the batter in an airtight container in the fridge for up to two days. If you plan to keep it longer than that, it's best to freeze the batter.
Can You Freeze Pancakes?
Yes, you can freeze pancakes and pancake batter.
· To freeze cooked pancakes: Allow the pancakes to cool completely, then arrange them in a single layer on a baking sheet (make sure the edges aren't touching). Flash freeze for a few hours or up to overnight. Reheat in an oven set to 350 degrees F until warmed through.
· To freeze pancake batter: Ladle the pancake batter in serving size portions into freezer bags, then wrap the bags in foil. Freeze flat for up to one month. Thaw in the refrigerator overnight.
Allrecipes Community Tips and Praise
"This recipe is one to hand down to your grandkids," raves ashleyalbertine. "Fluffy and delicious. Haven't bought a box of pancake mix in months! Just add a bit of vanilla and poof! Magic."
"Perfect," according to Laura W. "Delicious! If you're looking for some thick, hearty pancakes these are the ones to make! Made them exactly as the recipe states and then added mini-chocolate chips to each cake as they were on the frying pan (before flipping)."
"I made this recipe exactly as written...the kids were eating them off the plate faster than I could cook them," says aellis1970. "They are so delicious, they were eaten without syrup."
Editorial contributions by Corey Williams
Ingredients
1 ½ cups all-purpose flour
3 ½ teaspoons baking powder
1 tablespoon white sugar
¼ teaspoon salt, or more to taste
1 ¼ cups milk
3 tablespoons butter, melted
1 egg
Directions
Sift flour, baking powder, sugar, and salt together in a large bowl. Make a well in the center and add milk, melted butter, and egg; mix until smooth.
Heat a lightly oiled griddle or pan over medium-high heat. Pour or scoop the batter onto the griddle, using approximately 1/4 cup for each pancake; cook until bubbles form and the edges are dry, about 2 to 3 minutes. Flip and cook until browned on the other side. Repeat with remaining batter.
DOTDASH MEREDITH FOOD STUDIOS
Editor's Note:
The salt amount has been reduced based on review feedback. The original recipe called for 1 teaspoon.
I MADE IT
PRINT
Nutrition Facts (per serving)
158 Calories
6g Fat
22g Carbs
5g Protein
Show Full Nutrition Label
Reviews
Check out our Community Guidelines about reviews.
What do you think of this recipe? Share your experience to help others.
ADD RATING & REVIEW
4.6 out of 5
18518 Ratings
1
822
2
421
3
689
4
2399
5
14187
Most helpful positive review
TEVANS211
05/23/2006
It kills me how people go in and mutilate a perfectly good recipe. Then you have bad reviews and more mutilations. I read these reviews and decided I'd make the recipe just as it calls and I recommend not changing a thing (except maybe adding 1/2 tsp of vanilla to your egg mixture). I DO recommend sifting the flour, twice. That makes for a fluffier pancake. Let your egg and milk set at room tempurature and use unsalted butter. Beat your egg, add the melted butter and beat lightly until blended, then lightly beat in your milk (careful not to overbeat your egg). Add to your dry mixture. Your result is a fluffy, delicious, good old fashion pancake. This is one is a keeper!
Read More
Helpful (15,486)
Most helpful critical review
Anonymous
08/12/2001
Judging by the other comments, it seems we may have done something wrong because we couldn't even bring ourselves to eat these. The aftertaste was horrible. Too much baking powder?
Helpful (233)
Be the first to review!
You’ll Also Love
Easy Pancakes
1,884 Ratings
Pumpkin Pancakes
3,102 Ratings
Basic Crêpes
4,137 Ratings
French Toast
2,108 Ratings
Buttermilk Pancakes
3,903 Ratings
Banana Pancakes
2,652 Ratings
Homemade Dumplings
1,644 Ratings
Waffles
5,244 Ratings
Vegan Pancakes
888 Ratings
Carrot Cake Pancakes
Best Chocolate Chip Cookies
18,761 Ratings
German Pancakes
494 Ratings
Old Fashioned Stuffing
136 Ratings
Banana Banana Bread
16,322 Ratings
Favorite Old-Fashioned Gingerbread
1,391 Ratings
Easy Sugar Cookies
8,558 Ratings
Allrecipes
NEWSLETTER
Follow Us
DINNERS
MEALS
INGREDIENTS
OCCASIONS
CUISINES
KITCHEN TIPS
NEWS
FEATURES
About Us
Editorial Process
Anti-Racism Pledge
Privacy Policy
Product Vetting
Terms of Service
Advertise
Careers
Contact
Your Privacy Choices
Allrecipes is part of the Dotdash Meredith publishing family.
Please review our updated Terms of Service.